---
layout: post
title: Movie Reviews
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 11 January 2014 - Pittsburgh

Warning: includes spoilers.

Thoughts on some recently watched movies:

Bulletproof Monk: terrible. Skipped large sections. On the plus side, it passes
the Bechdel test!

Red Dawn (2012): enjoyable, though I spent large parts of the movie expecting
what happens to Chris Hemsworth's character to happen to several of the
protagonists. Romance was used as motivation, which worked well. Also, somewhat
unexpectedly, all the minority protagonists die.

Saving Mr. Banks: watching Emma Thompson always makes me smile, even when the
character's actions make me cringe. Loved the recording at the end and Paul
Giamatti as the driver. Colin Farrell returns as drunk ne'er do well,
surprising no one.

Frozen: it features Idina Menzel--done. Liked the reindeer, disliked the
snowman as auxiliary humor characters, although the "can-I-tell-him" schtick
was hilarious. The twist involving a sneak villain worked well, but keeping the
villain hidden meant no villain anthem. =\

Jack Reacher: enjoyable as background noise mostly since I recognized lots of
Pittsburgh locations.

The Hobbit, Part Two: better than expected. Enjoyed Martin Freeman as Bilbo.
Pleasantly surprised by Tauriel (obligatory female character). 

Superbad: reduced me to a gibbering wreck. Sometimes offensively funny, but
often just embarrassing. Enjoyed the mockery of high-school dreams, though. 

Random Jackie-Chan movie: how did I forget the man's physical artistry?

--
