---
layout: post
title: 3:50:43 - Pittsburgh Marathon
---

<!-- Using a manual title to avoid obnoxious Textile formatting issues since
the time has colons in it. Usually: h1. {{ page.title }} -->
h1. 3:50:43 - Pittsburgh Marathon

p(meta). 7 May 2015 - Pittsburgh 

note: still draft

Some thoughts on why this matters to me, a scattering of quick hits, and some
ideas on what to improve.

h2. Why oh Why?

I'd talked to several friends about the marathon over the course of the spring.
I still feel somewhat icky for doing so--it seems like a not-so-humble brag. At
the same time, I've benefited from their collective support, encouragement, and
advice. More than that, though, getting through this was something that I wanted
to do for _me_.

I've always been overweight, ranging from slightly chubby to definitely fat.
If we bifurcate the world I fall squarely into the "live-to-eat" camp. While
I've improved, I still struggle with portion and impulse control. For many
years this corresponded to a dislike of physical activity. While I participated
in a number of sports I rarely enjoyed going out and running around. This has
changed as I've lost weight and come to enjoy the chemical and stress release
from exercise.

The other major reason it matters so much to me relates to successes and
failures. 

h2. Quick Hits

In one word: long.
In two words: long and painful [1].
In three words: long, painful, and exhilarating.

Some things went well: 

* Dad, Gemma, and Anna came and supported me, which was lovely.
* Bryant very graciously ran with me for the first 11 miles providing pacing and
encouragement.

Other things went less well:

* Still a bit sore (four!) days later
* Slower than targeted - collapsed the last couple of miles

Yet other things were just fun:

* Man in turtle costume with sign saying: "Slow and steady wins the race." Another man next to him in hare costume: "He's lying, run faster!"
* "My marathons happen on Netflix"
* wonderful support from locals (thanks for the water and cheers!) and students (saw Katie, missed Jared and Matthew)

Heard Girls' Generation "Run Devil Run" a couple of days _after_; it would
have been a good song leading up to the race.

h2. For next time (?)

I'm both satisfied and unsatisfied with the time. It was slower than targeted,
as I had aimed for 3:40. On the other hand it was farther than I've ever run
before (our longest training run was around 22 miles) and it was significantly
warmer than our training runs. Due to drinking too much during the 22 mile run
and unfamiliarity with the warmer weather I didn't drink enough during the early
to mid part of the marathon. While I picked up fluids a couple of times during
the first half, I needed much more during the second. I also felt as though I
stopped sweating (not the best sign) and picked up a couple of drenched rags
on miles 23 and 24. My legs also started dying around mile 24 which contributed
to the particularly slow final two miles. 

I want to note all this because it's so easy to forget, especially since I've
done these distances so few times. The first time I tried to run 20 miles I hit
the wall somewhere around 18.5 and completely collapsed. Knowing the way I
reacted that time helped with the 22 mile run, but I wasn't as successful 
translating the 22 mile run into marathon success. I've identified two reasons
so far, (1) the course and conditions were easier, and (2) it _felt_ far more
successful, so I wasn't as focused on learning from it.


fn1. Whatever, technically three words. It's my blog, I decide which words count
=). "In two adjectives" forfeits too much rhythm for the accurracy gain.

--
